[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Many
of you have probably
heard the term
"sheeple," which simply
means people who are
led around like sheep.
The surprising part is that
this term applies to most of us,
but we don't know it.
How often have you
wondered why there
seem to be too few
valid choices when
it comes to the
things that matter,
or have had that deflated
feeling of is that all there
is?
Investigative
reporter Jon Rappoport
would tell you
this is by design,
and it began long, long ago.
Welcome, Jon.
>>JON RAPPOPORT:
Nice to be here.
>>REGINA: Great work.
This last weekend I
read the earliest one,
which was The Secret Behind
Secret Societies, which is now
leading into The
Matrix Revealed, which
is a CD set, which I haven't had
the opportunity to pick up yet.
But there's a reason
you're doing this,
and it really goes back
long ago to some experiences
you had when you
were a young man who
came into the acquaintance
of an extraordinary healer.
And I would like you to just
begin setting yourself up
so we understand where
you were coming from.
>>RAPPOPORT: I was 22,
working in New York
City in a bookstore.
I was beginning to write
when I wasn't working.
A guy came into the store
and asked for a book.
We had a conversation.
The next thing I knew, we sat
down, we had lunch together.
This was 1960, '61
in New York City.
And he tells me
that he's a healer.
Well, if you lived in
1961, nobody said that.
>>REGINA: No, nobody said that.
>>RAPPOPORT: And
even if they did,
you would say, well, I
don't know what you mean,
or you're crazy, or both.
I said, well, what
are you talking about?
So he started talking
to me about all
sorts of things--
Freud, Wilhelm Reich,
all kinds of what he
would call healers.
But the gist of it was that
in his apartment in Manhattan,
he was working on
diplomats at the UN.
They were coming to
see him because they
had physical problems.
And he was curing them
of those problems.
That was what I observed.
That's what eventually, through
our friendship, Richard Jenkins
and I became friends.
We talked a great deal.
He said, come in,
watch what I do.
I said, OK.
So I would sit
there, and I would
watch him work on these people.
There was nothing to
recognize about it.
There was no style where you
would say, ah, yes, well, you
are of the school of so-and-so.
There was none of that.
And this is part
of the point why
I started Secret Behind Secret
Societies with this story--
because people are
bulldozed and fooled
into accepting
spiritual formula.
This is the world of the spirit.
Well, the pedigree of
this author is so-and-so,
and it comes from a
tradition that goes back,
and therefore it
must be fantastic.
Or this comes from
this country, which
we know has had magnificent--
What's going on
here is that people
have lost totally
the individual sense
of what would make me unique.
What would make my
contribution unique?
What Richard Jenkins was
telling me and showing me
by his actions
with these people--
he would move around the table.
He'd have a guy laying out on
a table-- diplomat at the UN.
Maybe he spoke English,
maybe he didn't.
It didn't matter.
Richard would move around the
table, kind of like a dancer,
but he wasn't
following a pattern.
He was improvising.
This became clear to me in
about the second session.
This guy's improvising,
which on first blush
seems to be therefore,
he has absolutely no idea
what he's doing.
>>REGINA: And that was your
first thought, I would imagine.
>>RAPPOPORT: Yeah, he
has absolutely no idea
what he's doing.
So why, at the end
of the session,
does the guy feel better?
They're not talking.
Richard is not making
any suggestions.
There's no influence here.
The guy's lying on his
back with his eyes closed,
and Richard is moving
around the table--
movements of different
kinds-- seems
to be part of the
time in his own world.
Occasionally he puts
his hand somewhere
on the body of this guy.
I watched sessions
progress on the same person
week after week after week.
Arthritis begins to dissolve.
Serious organ problems
begin to go away.
All sorts of physical
manifestations
change, and all I can see is
that this guy's improvising.
Well, this not only I found
curious but fantastically
interesting because that's what
I was trying to do as a writer.
I started to paint then.
That's what I was trying
to do as a painter.
I loved jazz.
That's what jazz was all
about-- improvisation,
spontaneity, what's
happening now in the moment.
And here, I suddenly
see a guy who
was a healer-- a category
that I never even imagined
existed before-- and he
is doing the same thing.
He's improvising.
Only now I find
it very difficult
to believe that there could
be any connection between what
he's doing and
people being healed.
And so that became the
basis of the conversations
that Richard and I had.
Why do you think what I'm doing,
he would say, has no bearing
or would have no bearing on
the health of these people?
I say, you're not
actually doing anything.
What are you doing?
You're not twisting, you're not
pressing, you're not inserting.
You're not doing anything.
What do you think
anything means?
Do you think it's
more efficacious
if I put my hand there on
a person and I concentrate?
Is that what you're
saying, really?
And then I'd say, no,
that's not what I'm saying.
Well, what do you
think I'm doing?
And this would go on and
on until finally, he said,
you know what's going on.
It's why I told you
to come watch this.
He said, I know where you're
coming from-- improvisation,
spontaneity, life in the moment.
This is what you're
aiming for, right?
This is what you want, isn't it?
I said, yeah.
He said, well, this is
what I'm showing you.
This is what it is.
He said, you just
don't understand
the dimensions to
which that can expand
or the effects that it
can have when you're truly
acting in the moment right now.
And this turned around
completely my whole view,
eventually, of
spirituality, which
is what I write about in The
Secret Behind Secret Societies.
>>REGINA: Because spirituality--
even though it sounds
like it might be a conspiracy
book, the reality is it's not.
It's a journey of
consciousness and showing how
our consciousness has been shoe
horned and co-opted to where we
really do feel as though
we don't have anything
particularly unique
about ourselves,
where we can go to a doctor, and
he can do a one-size-fits-all--
slap some kind of therapy or
slap some kind of drug over
the top of us and it's going to
work, when in fact we're all--
I mean, I guess if you
could look at the aura,
we're all in a state of
constant creation and flux.
We're all very highly unique.
And all of that you
were trying to connect
with through this
healing art of his.
>>RAPPOPORT: That's
what I was trying to do.
>>REGINA: And this
whole analogy that you
used throughout this book of
life being nothing but art,
I loved.
I can see that.
I relate to it.
>>RAPPOPORT: Me, too.
>>REGINA: And then
there was one--
I interviewed Don
Miguel Ruiz, and I'm
going to say this one
thing, because it's a segue.
It fits perfectly
into this part of it.
And he was saying in
his most recent book
that this is your canvas.
Don't let anyone else
throw poo or anything else
on your canvas.
You should have the
right to wake up each day
and create anew on your canvas.
And that's really the whole
point of what you've done here.
>>RAPPOPORT: Spiritual
life-- people
have so many ideas
about what it is.
Most of those ideas inevitably
wind up in something passive
somehow.
I'm receiving this.
This is coming in to me.
I'm part of a
collective of something.
It's gooey.
It feels like something's melted
and somebody stuck in there
and is smiling about
it, saying, well, this
is exactly where I've
always wanted to be,
in the collective goo.
This is where we're going.
We're going to the
collective goo.
Hop on board.
And it's going to be wonderful.
It's going to be paradise.
But you won't have to
do anything, really.
When you finally arrive
there-- yes, there
may have been strenuous
moments, but you're now there,
and therefore, you're set.
>>REGINA: Isn't this
the great promise
of all of the world's
religions in essence.
>>RAPPOPORT: Every one of them.
Every one of them
is based on this.
>>REGINA: New Age, Old
Age-- it doesn't matter.
>>RAPPOPORT: Middle
>>REGINA: It doesn't matter.
>>RAPPOPORT: Youth-- they're
all based on the same idea.
It's you're the receiver
getting the transmission.
If you can't get the
right transmission,
you have to clear the airwaves,
and then it will come to you.
This is the big con.
This is the big scam.
This is the cosmic
rolling of the dice
in exactly the wrong direction.
This is where people
get eventually.
No matter what part of
the maze they enter into,
eventually they
begin to think, you
know, maybe this is a lot
easier than I thought.
Maybe if I can just adjust my
spine or my consciousness one
degree, an inch to the
right, the transmission
will finally come through, and
then I'll become enlightened.
And what I'm saying
here-- it's your art.
How are you going to improvise?
What are you going to create?
What are you going to
be spontaneous about?
You have an infinite
variety of choices.
This is what the
spiritual life is.
>>REGINA: Absolutely,
but let me go back
over what you just
said a moment ago.
Then you're saying that for us
to be in this passive position
waiting to be told what to
do-- it's not as though sitting
quietly doesn't have its value.
You can actually hear yourself.
And I just wanted to
make that distinction.
>>RAPPOPORT: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Connecting
with your own sense
of creativity and
inner awareness-- cool.
But you're talking about
waiting to be given
the word as to the
direction of your life.
>>RAPPOPORT: I'm also
talking also about-- yes,
but if you're sitting
there, and you're
finding your inner serenity,
and peace, and so forth,
and how could that
is-- yes, yes, yes.
But then what are
you going to do?
Because that's certainly
not the end of it.
It's not as if you can turn
up the dial on the intensity
of that to the point
where a person goes,
I am now so serene and
so self-realized, and so
enlightened that there's
nothing left to do.
No, because what
I'm saying here is
that the spiritual life comes
from spontaneous expression,
from improvised, imagined--
it comes from creation.
Your creation.
Your imagination.
That's what it originally is.
That's what a spiritual
life originally is.
And somehow it's been hijacked,
where people are now saying,
that's spiritual life?
That doesn't sound like
anything that I've learned.
No, what I've been
taught is spiritual life
is something that
ultimately I receive.
No.
>>REGINA: It's very divisive.
>>RAPPOPORT: Very divisive.
And it cuts out the
uniqueness, too,
because where does
the uniqueness come?
Uniqueness comes from what you
create-- what you spontaneously
create-- what you imagine.
That's you.
That's not anybody else.
That's not the tradition
of one, two, zippity-zoo
that goes back 5,000 years.
That's you right now.
And, see, that's
what people have
to begin to come to grips with.
I say to people sometimes, you
want to have an experience?
You get 50 sheets of paper.
You get a brush.
You get black ink
or black paint.
That's what you do.
In fact, let's do
100-- 100 sheets.
Now what you're
going to do is you're
going to execute, quickly,
paintings of any nature.
You're going to take no more
than 30 seconds on each one,
and then you bring it over here.
And you do 100 of these quickly.
You're going to get more
out of that experience
than you're going to get
out of reading 500 tomes,
because that's you.
>>REGINA: And years of therapy.
>>RAPPOPORT: And
years of therapy.
And if 100 doesn't
do it, try 500.
Eventually, you're
going to see something.
Something is going to be
illuminated for you, by you,
from you.
You're the active principle.
That's what this is about.
You're not the
passive principle.
>>REGINA: But that is not how we
have been raised as a species.
As I said when I
was introducing you,
this goes a long way back when
we start looking into-- you
don't even have to
call it a conspiracy.
It's simply-- we can
call it "the plan."
I think you use that term.
It's "the plan" in the book.
But when we start looking
back, secret societies,
and perpetrators of plans,
and so forth are not new.
They've always had to have
some kind of key to accessing
our psyche collectively to
be able to manipulate us
through fear or whatever.
And you've done this very clever
little video about even today,
how secrecy exists,
hiding in plain sight.
How data is collected
on us to begin
managing our
impressions of life,
and I'd like to
go to that video,
if you don't mind,
about the conversation
between Google and the NSA--
National Security Agency.
Let's take a look at that.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>I'm the boss of Google.
>>I'm the boss of the
National Security Agency.
>>I'm the boss of Google.
>>I'm the boss of the NSA.
>>Now that we have
that established,
what is your ultimate goal?
>>We want to know everything
about everybody all the time.
>>So do we.
>>We don't want
you spying on us.
>>Ditto.
>>So let's work together.
>>We'll give you
all the information
we have on everybody
if you'll do the same.
>>Much of our information is
classified and top secret.
>>But we'll only use it
for commercial purposes.
>>You mean, for example, you'll
sell a terrorist a toaster?
>>If his profile indicates he's
in the market for a toaster.
But he might want a course
on how to give a dog a bath.
>>If we make this deal, then
we might use the information
you give us to turn an
innocent man into a terrorist.
>>What you do with the
information is your business.
>>All right.
Suppose you give us
information on a car salesman
who lives in Peoria
and we make him
into a terrorist-- a
threat to the state.
We'd have our reasons
for doing that.
>>Then you'll give
us that information,
and we sell this terrorist the
brand of car wax terrorists
tend to favor.
>>Or you could
recommend an attorney.
He'll need an attorney.
>>Then if he does
get an attorney,
we tell you who the attorney is.
>>Then we investigate
the attorney.
>>You give us the results
of that investigation,
and we see he's an avid golfer.
We show him ads for golf clubs
and video instruction courses
on developing a better swing.
>>This might work
out well-- that is,
if we let an accused
terrorist have an attorney,
which we wouldn't.
>>Over time, as we learn
to trust each other,
we might decide it's beneficial
to merge into one company.
It would save time and money.
>>Yes.
We could make money selling
toasters and car wax and golf
clubs.
>>And we could profile
and investigate people
to see if they're
potential terrorists.
>>It's all just information.
>>And how you use it.
>>But we would never
do anything wrong.
>>Neither would we.
>>Facebook is a threat, though.
>>Why?
>>Because millions of people are
already profiling themselves.
If this goes too
far, there would
be a reduced need for NSA.
>>So we need to start a
campaign against Facebook.
>>What would be the
substance of that campaign?
>>We secretly issue
rumors that Facebook
is exposing too many
people to data theft
and stalking and surveillance
by the government.
>>Yes.
And if it doesn't work,
we start a new operation
called Confessions.
If you can't beat
them, join them.
>>What would Confessions do?
>>Allow people to make
extensive online confessions
of every secret they
have-- confessions
of their past misdeeds and
their most private and least
social thoughts.
>>It would be an instant hit.
>>Are you thinking
what I'm thinking?
>>I believe so.
>>We have to bring the
Vatican in on this.
They have the biggest confession
database in the world.
>>Excuse me.
>>What?
What's wrong?
>>I just received a
signal that somebody
is taping this meeting.
>>It's not us.
>>It's not us, either.
>>You mean somebody else is
out there that's spying on us?
>>Are you thinking
what I'm thinking?
>>God.
He's recording this.
>>Maybe he needs
some golf clubs.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>REGINA: I love that.
And in fact, I had just
scribbled down here,
we've got to bring
up Facebook just
before the little characters
were talking about Facebook.
Because what's important
about this-- people have
their reasons for enjoying
Facebook and all, and some
of the background
data I've seen on it
is it is nothing
but a data mining.
At its deepest level, it's
a data mining operation.
You're freely giving up
information about yourself
so that you can be pulled
in with, now I guess,
about a billion others to
be essentially profiled
for not just marketing,
but for intelligence that's
used a number of ways, right?
And this is all coming back
to us by way of controls.
And I want to get
into, to me, one
of the most frightening
aspects of it, which
has to do with the loss
of our health freedom.
>>RAPPOPORT: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: I mean, we're going to
talk about that a little later.
However, we also want
to talk about the notion
that this stuff
is going on today.
I mean, you have in your
book, which I really
enjoyed-- it's not
funny, but going back
into the notion of
secret societies
and the control over our psyche.
First let's go back
to religions before we
get into the contemporary stuff.
Let's go back to the beginning.
>>RAPPOPORT: OK, so
you mentioned playing
on the vulnerability
of people in order
to enlist them in the
cause, so to speak.
So a religion can do
that in various ways.
You know, say, first of
all, you're suffering.
Yeah.
You have problems.
You're limited.
They slip that one by you.
Like, oh, I guess I am.
Look what we have.
We have something
that we can offer you.
And it's kind of a secret,
because only some of us
are really initiated into it.
Well, this naturally arouses
the curiosity of people.
There may be
something good here.
There's a secret.
Secret behind secret
societies-- part of that
is to have a secret that
you can promote to people.
We have a secret, and we can
help you improve your lives.
But then there is
a sense-- and I
think this is really
at the core of it--
there's a part of
people that wants
to be treated collectively.
Yes, we want to be a collective.
>>REGINA: We want to feel
connected with each other,
right?
>>RAPPOPORT: Yes.
There's nothing wrong with that.
Of course people want to feel
connected with each other.
But now you take it too far,
and now what you have is
you have humans living in a
beehive, in an ant colony--
that sort of collective notion.
And this is one of the things
that religious organizations
have preyed on and used
since the beginning.
We have an organization.
You're part of the organization,
and on the top end is heaven.
Now the only way to get
there is through us.
The only way to get
to understanding
what you're really all
about is through us.
And everyone is really
in the same boat.
So come to us, all
of you together,
and you will all
be together as one.
How many times
have we heard that?
And these people say,
well, that sounds great.
No, it doesn't.
It doesn't sound great to say
we will all be together as one.
>>REGINA: Yeah, where
are you in that?
>>RAPPOPORT: Where
did this come from?
>>REGINA: But with that is, now,
people listening to this right
now would think, but sure,
that's how it's supposed to be.
We're all one.
>>RAPPOPORT: That's right.
>>REGINA: Most people
listening right now
are going to be thinking that.
>>RAPPOPORT: Yeah.
So this is challenging
that straight ahead.
OK, think about that.
Is that really what you want?
And what does it even mean?
Does it mean, for
example, that you're all
going to be the
consistency of cappellini?
Is it angel hair one?
Is it melted butter one?
Is it cheese one?
Is it going to be, I
don't know, salad bar one?
What is the oneness that
you're really talking about?
When you really boil it down,
is it the oneness of we're
all sleeping?
We're all in a narcotic state?
What does that mean?
It means that you're
no longer you?
Because that's sort
of the implication.
Oh, no, I'm going to be
me, but we're all one.
Explain that.
What does that mean?
People take that-- it's kind
of like you show somebody
a cushion or a pillow,
and you say, try it out.
And they say, I love it.
We are all one.
How do you like that?
I like it.
I don't know what it
means, but I like it.
We are all one.
Religion has found a way to
promote that idea to people.
It's collectivism on
a spiritual level.
That's what we're talking about.
>>REGINA: But
that's specifically
initiated and
managed through fear.
You got the carrot-- salvation.
>>RAPPOPORT: To some degree.
Yes, salvation.
And then, here's
hell if you don't.
>>REGINA: Yeah, you
don't buy the program,
and you're going somewhere else.
>>RAPPOPORT: You're
also going to be alone.
>>REGINA: And you're
going to be alone, right.
Isolation.
>>RAPPOPORT: This
is big, because "we
are all one" does-- you're
absolutely right-- imply if you
don't believe us, then
what's the consequence?
You're going to be left out.
The rest of us will all be
one, only you won't be there.
So this is another
big technique.
Well, these techniques
of collectivism-- this
is the history, in a
way, of the planet.
Whether you're talking
spirituality, economics,
finances, government,
politics-- on every level,
you're talking about somebody's
version of collectivism.
>>REGINA: Social welfare.
>>RAPPOPORT: Yes.
>>REGINA: All of it.
>>RAPPOPORT: All of it.
And the idea we're
all in this together,
some politician tells us.
We are all one.
We're all in this together.
Stop, Mr. Politician.
What does that actually mean?
My understanding was that we had
a Republic in the United States
with a Constitution,
and that there
were certain inviolable
individual rights.
>>REGINA: Right.
The individual part
has been left behind.
>>RAPPOPORT: Yes,
the individual part
has been deleted and erased
in favor of the collective.
Well, it's the same
thing that happened,
only it happened much earlier,
long ago, in religion.
Let's eliminate the I.
Let's say the I is bad.
Let's convince everybody that
the I really means the ego,
and we all know
that the ego is bad.
So we have to
eliminate that in favor
of the smoothed out,
equalized collective.
Everybody goes, yeah, the
ego is bad, and so forth.
>>REGINA: But you know
what's weird about that
is that almost every
human being I know
has issues around the fact
that they feel isolated already
because they're not fitting in.
This is a deep
subconscious thing
that expresses itself--
that they're not fitting in.
They feel different than
the rest of people--
uncomfortable around
others-- because they
don't feel they fit in.
Well, if that's how the majority
of people are feeling secretly,
we have to start
getting the clue.
There's a reason for that.
Maybe we're not supposed to
be fitting in to anything.
And I want to read this quote
out of your book to you.
Hope you remember it.
You might even
remember who said it.
This is interesting
because it has
to do with a group of elites
that specifically do not
wish that we wake up
to our individuality.
And here's the quote, "If
individual reality becomes
fluid, then how can we control
huge numbers of people?
The world itself on every
level will stop being singular,
and the obedience we
require will disappear.
We won't be able
to wield forever
authoritative patterns and
their unchanging symbols."
That's an amazing quote.
Now, it doesn't have to look
like a bleak totalitarian
picture.
It can look like democracy.
It can look like
life in the USA,
life in Western
Europe, Disneyland.
It doesn't matter.
It's still being
managed and controlled,
is what you're saying.
>>RAPPOPORT: I am.
I'm saying that.
And the only real end
to it is the individual,
because if the individual
is basically doomed
to be in one
collective or another
because he or she can't
imagine themselves living
their lives in any other
way, then all is lost.
Because it doesn't matter
who runs the collective.
They're going to get her or
him because the person is
right to be part of that.
So I want to go back
to what you said.
People should feel
uncomfortable in the presence
of this sort of unified
collective field
of melted cheese.
They should feel uncomfortable.
They should feel, what is this
upon which I am encountering,
sire?
As I ride my horse,
the knight errant,
and I see these
humanoids that all
seem to be fitting into
some system of a collective,
what is this?
How did this happen?
Where was the
individual eradicated?
How is the individual
taken out of this?
And if you say--
and I believe you're
right-- the majority of people
actually feel misfitted,
then it would be a great
idea if the misfits just
started talking to each other.
>>REGINA: Well, and
that is most people.
I mean, that's what
I hear, anyway,
in private conversations with
most people is at some point,
they don't feel
comfortable around others,
because they don't feel
like they're fitting in.
The people I know
are not what all
what would be classically
called misfits.
These are everyday people.
>>RAPPOPORT: They're
are all sorts of people.
They're people from
every walk of life.
I believe you.
I would propose a scale.
It's like a seesaw, okay.
It's a long horizontal.
And you say, here
is this individual.
Now ultimately, this person
who feels they don't fit in,
are they closer to becoming
part of the collective melted
cheese, where-- which the
idea of the individual
is totally erased and
it's all kind of, oh,
isn't this wonderful?
Or are they closer to
being the unique individual
that they actually are?
Well, I would maintain
they're closer to that.
So let them go in
that direction.
In other words, stop
worrying about fitting in.
Start worrying about
the fact that you're
kind of caught in the middle.
That's the problem.
The problem is you've got
an inkling and more that you
are a unique individual, and
that therefore, your role
is to create your reality
to the hilt-- to imagine it,
to invent it, to create
it, to improvise it,
to live spontaneously.
That is your creation.
And it will be unique to you.
You have an inkling of that.
You can go in that direction, or
you can go in the direction of,
I just want to fit
in and be happy.
Do you really think you're going
to be happy at the end of that?
>>REGINA: Nobody's happy.
>>RAPPOPORT: Come on.
You're not going to be
happy at the end of that.
Here's where you want to go
because once you get further
into the uniqueness and
spontaneity of who you are,
you're going to
find all of a sudden
that you can relate
better to other people.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
You're totally free.
And one of the things that
we were going to get to,
and I think it's time we
dive into it-- if we start
looking at programming and
the plan throughout history,
now we're going to look at it
from a sociopathic political
level.
We'll go to Hitler.
Lots has been written about
him and what he was actually
going for.
He was going for
a plan, all right,
but the plan actually
had different roots
than most people know.
And aside from wiping out ethnic
groups as part of his plan,
he was also wiping
out astrologers,
psychics, certain
artists, gypsies--
we know that-- living freely.
What was the real
agenda going on there
from a historical point of view?
>>RAPPOPORT: Same thing you
find with-- if you go back far
enough in time--
with the Vatican.
They were doing the same thing.
You're a healer, a witch,
a this, a that, a whatever.
You're departing
from the doctrine.
We've got to get rid of you.
You either renounce
yourself as a heretic
and join the fold, in which
case we'll keep an eye on you
and think about provisional
membership in the plan,
or you're out.
And if you're out, you're gone.
What was Hitler doing?
Hitler was trying to monopolize
spiritual life on the planet.
He thought that he had a
clue about the ancient race
of superior man, of which
the Germans were the latest
incarnation.
He was going to trace it
back, and he sent people
all over the world to
find confirming evidence.
He sent them to Tibet.
He accumulated the
evidence the way
a person does when
they start out
with a fixed idea that
will never change no matter
what happens, and then they
look around, and everything
they see they
relate to that idea.
Oh, well, that's just
more confirmation
that I am the king of the world
and that my plan is the plan.
Oh, we have something
that happened in China
1,500 years ago?
That simply confirms that the
Nazis are, in fact, the leaders
of the Aryan race, and that we
deserve to take over the world.
And we must eliminate all
spiritual competition--
all competitors.
Astrologists-- Hitler
would say privately,
I'm the only astrologer.
>>REGINA: Right, because
he's totally into astrology,
but he's killing off
the other astrologers.
>>RAPPOPORT: So you
knock off everybody else.
He learns a little bit about
visualization, which he did up
in his private retreat, and
he had people working for him.
OK, anybody that teaches
visualization, exile them
or kill them right
away, because I
am the only one that now knows
anything about the subject.
It's monopolization,
centralization
of power-- of a doctrine--
that preaches an elite
and then there's everybody else.
>>REGINA: That's no
different than, again,
going back to the Church of
Rome and some of the more
ancient spiritual traditions.
He was no different.
He was just a particularly
sociopathic, paranoid
representation of that.
But within that, he
implemented everything.
He implemented everything
in a negative spectrum
that one would when
you're operating
from those principles.
>>RAPPOPORT: Exactly.
And he's more relatable
to the modern person
because it happened
during vaguely our time.
You go back to Egypt, for
example-- ancient Egypt--
and you start talking
about the priesthood there
and the caste system
there, and people go, yeah,
I sort of know what you mean.
And you think, do
you really, though?
Can you imagine what
it's like that you
are one of the
chosen few and you've
got everybody else
building pyramids?
And some volunteering, yes, but
there's some forced labor, too.
And you've got the only doctrine
that matters in a civilization
and that you hold
all the secrets,
and that people will not be
able to find out the secrets
unless they're initiated.
Or do you know what it
means to have a real caste
system in ancient India?
People say, sort of.
You tell them Hitler, they
generally say, OK, I get it.
>>REGINA: That's why
he's a wonderful example
to use because of the
extremity of everything there.
What about-- going
further back-- we'll
go to the conception.
And this can be
indigenous societies that
appear to be living in a
very different kind of way
than the what we now consider
modern organized religion,
but in fact, we're
still harking back
to these same creation stories.
Every creation story
has a common theme,
and that is there
is a superior being
who has created
inferior beings who
can work either over lifetimes
or within a lifetime,
whatever the belief system is,
to somehow win the good graces
so you can hang out
somewhere in the company
of the superior being.
Where is the creator in that?
>>RAPPOPORT: Brilliant.
Nowhere.
>>REGINA: Where are we?
Where is the creator--
us-- we are here to create.
>>RAPPOPORT: Exactly, yes.
Exactly.
There we go.
People feel-- because we're now
talking centuries and centuries
of personal cultural social
brainwashing to this myth
that you've just described here.
People feel naked.
They feel alone.
They say, you mean it's me.
Is that what you're saying?
You're saying it's me?
That I'm the creator?
That I create essentially
my own consciousness?
To which-- and I
write in the book,
and I would say this-- yes.
In fact, one of the
most fundamental things
about consciousness is
that it wants to and does
create new consciousness.
Guess what.
It's not static.
It's not here and then
here, or it's there-- no.
And it'll take any means to
accomplish this, you see.
And so here you are.
You have your consciousness,
which means it's you.
You want to create
new consciousness.
You're a creator.
You are the creator
of your consciousness.
And now you want to
turn around, and you
want to say that somehow it's
a superior thing, and a more
holy thing, and a
more wonderful thing,
and a less selfish thing,
and a more accepting thing,
and a better societal thing
if you say that up there
is the one who created me?
You really want to believe that?
And you want to also believe
that if you don't say that,
that there's something
deeply the matter with you?
And that people should
look at you and say,
there's an outcast.
There's a heretic.
There is one who is from Satan,
because what does Satan believe
but that the individual
is ultimately powerful,
and that God means nothing.
This is the centuries-- now
we're talking about the heavy
stuff-- of propaganda all
leveled at the idea that you
cannot be the creative power
behind the throne of yourself.
That this is not allowed.
We can't have this
on the planet.
You want to know
secret societies
on the planet really accomplish?
This is what they
accomplish, okay.
This is the bottom line
on the whole thing.
This is what they really
accomplish to the point
where people would
say, oh, my god,
I can't say that I'm the one.
That would be like
saying, I am god.
No, it's not.
It's not the same
thing as saying
I am god, because god is part
of the myth of the creature
to whom you will always
be completely inferior.
We're not talking
about that at all.
We're talking
about you being you
being the power behind
the throne of yourself.
That's you.
>>REGINA: You're the
creator of your life.
>>RAPPOPORT: You're the
creator of your life,
your consciousness,
the expansion
of your consciousness,
the uniqueness of wherever
you want to take that
consciousness-- all
those directions are open to
you whether you see them or not.
Now, you think you
can only get there
by becoming a slave to
some myth that you created?
Good luck.
>>REGINA: It's
antithetical to that.
Every now and then you hear of
probably the most often bandied
about quotation in the Bible
that is counter to that, which
is the statement by Jesus in the
Bible that anything I can do,
you can do and more,
essentially, which is you're
your own creator.
If I can do this, so can you.
What's stopping you?
>>RAPPOPORT: Now,
you see, my theory
on that-- just like every
time that this kind of thing
is enunciated in history-- the
reason that people pass over it
is because if they
stopped right there,
that would be the end of
whatever they're doing.
That would be the last
sentence in the Bible
if anybody had any common sense.
They'd say, hold it.
Stop right there.
Did the man say--
This is what I want
to get straight.
It's like we were talking
earlier off camera
about the news.
When the reporter has got the
story, he's got the witness,
and just asked the question,
got the explosive answer,
and then non sequitur.
So what car are you
driving these days?
What?
You just blew the
whole thing over.
You're not going to--
>>REGINA: Don't get me
going about the media.
>>RAPPOPORT: So it's
the same thing here.
Jesus said, and
you shall do things
that I've never even imagined.
OK, hold it.
Did the man say that?
What did he mean?
And you get final
confessions out of people.
OK, he said that I would be
able to do more than he did.
OK, I admit it.
Everybody admits it.
OK.
>>REGINA: The end.
>>RAPPOPORT: The
end of the Bible.
That's it.
OK, wrap it up, get
it to the publisher.
This is the last
sentence of the Bible.
We don't need to go any further.
And it's a great punchline,
too, when you think about it.
We had all of the
Old Testament and all
of the New Testament leading
up to this one sentence.
And now it blows people's
heads away, and they go, wow.
That was worth it to read
the book to get to that.
>>REGINA: To get
to that punchline.
I agree.
And instead, the
exact opposite has
happened and been
pounded it into us.
And you write in the book about
the fact that at one point,
the priests were
considered higher
on the level of hierarchies of
the heavens than God himself.
Well, of course that was made
true by the church itself.
>>RAPPOPORT: Church of Rome.
>>REGINA: Yeah, and
so it would certainly
justify the terrible
things that happened
during certain
eras of the church.
And I'm not just pounding
on the Catholic church.
It's all religions.
It's all institutions
that control.
>>RAPPOPORT: You can go
into primitive cultures,
for example-- so-called
primitive cultures-- which
have been called-- the
anthropological studies and so
forth really all
to me an operation
to convince us yet once
again that collectivism
is better than the
free individual.
It would be, look
at this society.
Everybody's all together
and one and so forth.
You have a dream in
one of these societies.
Go to sleep, and you have
a dream, you wake up,
and you go, wow, strange.
And you go to the guy-- whoever
the guy is that interprets
the dreams-- and he's
going to tell you
that every single thing in
that dream and every symbol
is somehow magically
illustrative of the doctrine
of the tribe.
And that's the only thing
you can relate that dream to.
And you go, thank you.
Now I understand.
Is that mind control or
is that mind control?
You think these
societies are free?
Wow.
A person goes all through
their lives having
these incredible
dreams, and they're all
interpreted according
to this doctrine.
>>REGINA: OK, so that
brings me to something else.
I hadn't really thought
about asking you,
but might this have to do with
the popularity at this point
in time-- not just
popularity-- people are having
transformative experiences
under psychotropic drugs,
such as ayahuasca, where--
what happens there?
I haven't done it.
I mean, I haven't
been to the jungle--
haven't done psychotropics.
Is anyone interpreting
anything there,
or are these your things
to interpret for yourself.
I'm just tossing that out there.
>>RAPPOPORT: I've
heard it both ways.
Now Westerners, I
think, some of them
go there-- they're fairly
independent-minded.
So somebody tells
them, this is what
it means-- they're not
going to go for it.
But others will.
Because others-- what?
What's going on here?
And they get the story.
Here's the story.
>>REGINA: I was just
wondering if that
might be a breakaway
in some cases,
but I want to
continue on and blow
past that, because just as you
had people-- the priests-- who
considered themselves above
even their own creator, God,
in the hierarchy, you
also had Giordano Bruno.
Can you talk about this man?
What a beautiful--
he was an ex-priest
in the 1500s-- beautiful,
beautiful being.
>>RAPPOPORT: Giordano.
>>REGINA: An illuminated being.
Can you talk about what he was
trying to bring to the table
and tell the people
and tell the church.
>>RAPPOPORT: Bruno was
part of the church--
you know, priest and so forth--
but unfortunately, the man was
a poet.
That's basically what
he was-- was a poet.
And he was a philosophical poet.
So he began to imagine--
and in the book
I have a number of
quotes from him--
but the idea was that
he began to imagine
unique and individual souls.
In other words, the person
that you are-- a unique you--
eternal, never really
perishes, never goes away,
goes on and on into the future.
Me-- another unique soul.
And the same thing.
And he begins to write about
this in some wonderful ways.
The idea of rays
of energy or light
as indicating your
future and my future.
And somehow, they never
interfere with each other.
And yet, we are in touch.
So you have the
best of both worlds.
This is not a
collectivism nightmare
that winds up in the soup,
nor is it so isolated
that we're like frozen
hamburgers forever
in the Arctic, separate.
But we are each unique,
meaning we are not the same.
He recognized
this, and he talked
about eternal individual souls.
And of course, the church had
to absolutely destroy him.
>>REGINA: It didn't go well.
I'll read from your book again.
"For his trouble, his wisdom,
his great spirit,
and his poetry, Bruno
was stripped naked,
tied to a stake,
and taken to the Square
of Flowers in Rome
on Saturday, February
19, 1600, where
the church burned him alive."
That's what happens
to individuality--
pure creative force.
>>RAPPOPORT: That
was the message--
we will not stand for this.
That was the church's message.
And that is-- The
message, in a way,
still-- except a lot of water
has gone under the bridge.
I mean, I have to go back
to Thomas Paine, Declaration
of Independence, Articles
of Confederation,
The Constitution,
The Bill of Rights--
there were people who were
conscious in those days.
John Locke, one of
the great influencers
of these American founders,
who said, you know what?
No, wait a minute here.
The individual is
the individual.
There's something that
we've recognized here
that's not the same
as it always has been.
We have emerged from
the "we" into the "I."
This is legitimate historical
change of consciousness.
Everything was we,
we, we, we, we, we,
and now we've recognized
there is an I,
and we're going to say that
this I has intrinsic freedom
and power of choice.
Things are now going
to be different.
And for about 10 minutes
they were, until the powers
that be began to see
this for the true threat
that it was to the
collective because they--
the powers that be in the terms
of various secret societies--
run these collectives.
They promote these
collectives as,
don't you want to
help other people?
Wouldn't you feel
guilty if you didn't?
And so forth and so on.
Do you really want to
stand alone and separate?
But the I emerging
from the we, to me,
is one of the great, great
things of the last-- let's
call it 1,000 years of history.
That struggle.
And now what we're
seeing is the reversal.
>>REGINA: We are totally
seeing the reversal,
and though they're not burned
at the stake, what we find
is with the children.
This is when creativity
is still alive is
the very beginning of our life.
We come in with these
impulses and raw desires
to experience, and
play, and learn, and be,
which are quickly fashioned
into something else.
And now we simply drug them.
I mean, we don't have time to
get in that whole discussion.
We know about this-- huge
percentages of children
now on really
mood-altering drugs
to keep them quiet
and submissive,
to sit still in class and
go along with the program.
So let's talk about a
new kind of education,
because I know this is something
that's near and dear to you.
>>RAPPOPORT: It's the
education of imagination
of the individual--
of the child.
The child creates.
The child imagines.
That's what's happening
when the child plays games
with other children who have
some degree of civility.
Some degree-- enough
to play a game,
and change roles, and imagine,
and fantasize, and so forth.
If the parents don't interfere--
if the parent somehow feels
a paucity of imagination
in their own life--
>>REGINA: Which
they all do by now,
by the time they're that age.
>>RAPPOPORT: --tough.
Tough.
Figure it out on your own.
Don't put it on the
back of the kid, okay.
Don't force the kid to remedy
your lack of imagination.
You figure it out on your own.
There's plenty of ways
an adult can do this,
but the kid has
his own strategies.
The book is Summerhill--
that's the book-- A.S.
Neill-- a school that
he founded in 1920,
I believe, in London,
with the notion
that if a child could really
play out all of his fantasies,
if this were theoretically
possible, in a nonthreatening
environment, that eventually
he would feel satisfied
and he would come to
education on his own.
What a revolutionary
concept that was.
>>REGINA: But you can
feel the truth in it.
>>RAPPOPORT: And it worked.
I mean, it worked fantastically.
And it proved-- first of
all, the thing that I loved
about A.S. Neill-- and I was
a teacher for several years,
enough to know how incredibly
hard that is-- Neil said, look,
I want people to understand.
Our school is not any
different than other schools
once a kid gets
in the classroom.
We don't try to
seduce the child,
make things interesting
for the child,
keep the child's
attention captured,
put things on the wall and
drop balloons from the ceiling
and make it all
strangely interesting
and fabulous so
that we can avoid
the things that the kids and the
teachers are trying to avoid,
which is reading,
writing, and arithmetic.
No, we teach those just like
anybody else would teach them,
with old-fashioned textbooks,
no flags or anything like that.
The thing is, though,
if the kid has really
lived through this
fantasy life prior
to coming in the
classroom-- what
we say is, don't come in
here unless you want to stay.
We don't want the flip-flop.
When you want to be
here, we're here.
So the kid could be 8, 9, 11--
he tells a story in Summerhill,
a kid of 15 shows up
in his office one day.
The kid has been-- this is a
school that you live and play
at, and so forth.
The kid has never
been in school.
He's been playing
since he's however--
And he finally comes into Neill.
And Neill is not a pushover.
He's not like, oh,
we love everybody.
Neil is kind of a stern
schoolmaster-type.
And he says, yes,
what can I do for you?
And he says, well, sir
I want to go to school.
Well, OK.
You realize, of
course, you're going
to have a tough road to hoe.
Yes, well, I want
to be an engineer.
Well, you're going to have to
finish-- in two or three years,
you're going to have
to finish everything
all the way up
through high school.
Yes, sir, I'm
prepared to do that.
OK.
Be off with you.
Kid goes to school-- bang!
Does all of the
work from scratch
to graduating high school
in two or three years.
Bingo!
Gets a degree, has a job
in a company in London.
And one day, he's called into
the office of the boss, who
says to him, you know
son, or whatever,
what makes you different
from all the other people who
work for me?
And the kid looks
straight at him.
And he says, I'm
not afraid of you.
End of story.
This is the best
kind of kid that
was turned out by that school,
because the imagination-- it
wasn't a question of how do we
enlist the child's imagination,
it was that the child is all
imagination all the time.
So we just need to provide
a space in which this could
be acted out with
other children.
They will produce
roles and stage
plays of things you would
never understand as an adult,
and they will go
through all of this,
and each kid will drop out
when he's ready to come and do
this other thing we have
called classroom education.
>>REGINA: Right.
In the Waldorf system-- my
son went through Waldorf,
and it was very similar
in the early stages.
It still is highly
structured, no doubt about it.
But it's more of what
you're speaking of in that
the very early years, especially
kindergarten, which oftentimes
the kids will do two
years of kindergarten
in these beautiful,
whimsical, beautiful rooms
with all sorts of things.
They can pretend to be a
knight in shining armor,
they can pretend to cook, and
they have little sandboxes,
they can be a truck
driver-- but they play,
and they act in
plays and role model
for themselves whatever
they like and imagine
for the first couple years.
And then, even after that,
into the next three years
or so, they're not
really encouraged
to do a lot of academics.
It's still learning
through storytelling.
And they're cutting the
corners off the pages, which
a lot of people
think, why do they
cut the corners off the pages?
Which is to simply
prevent linear thinking
at too early an age.
So it's rounded off, so
the mind stays very fluid
and moves around.
And I always found that
the most beautiful thing.
But as a parent, even
still, my friends
had their kids in other schools.
It could be public school,
charter schools-- whatever
school they were in, they
were ahead of my son.
My son didn't learn
to read and do math
as quickly as their
children, and I thought,
oh, gosh, he's having a
blast, he's loving it,
he's resonating with this.
I hope I'm doing the
right thing for him.
And the parents
start getting sucked
into this, because of
the way we were treated
in the decisions that
were made on our behalf.
>>RAPPOPORT: The
parent feels that they
can't allow somebody
else to be free
because they were not free.
Neil says this over and
over again in his book.
And I think it's part of this
whole idea of creative life--
living the creative
life, imagining
what it is that you want to
imagine and expressing it.
What could be more
exciting than this?
Except people
feel, no I can't do
that because I don't
want to allow myself
that kind of freedom, because
it wasn't allowed to me.
It's the non-freedom passed on
from generation to generation
down the line.
Well, at some point,
you have to say, no.
This is not the way
it's going to be.
I'm not going to
live an unfree life.
And I'm not going to have
my kid live an unfree life.
I'm not going to supervise
this kid to death.
I'm not going to put so much
on his head, and his time,
and his effort that he
feels that I'm always
looking over his shoulder,
protecting him and taking care
of him all the time, and
scheduling his life out,
and all of this.
I'm not going to suck
life out of this child
just because it would satisfy my
inhibition about freedom to do
so.
>>REGINA: Well said.
Beautiful.
>>RAPPOPORT: I'm not
going to do that.
I'll never forget a
good friend of mine.
Her son was born in
1961 in New York.
He's a good friend
of mine still.
And I said to her once, how
did you raise such a great kid?
She's my age.
And she said, well,
one day we were walking
on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan,
right next to the park,
and there was a low wall
there-- a stone wall--
and he was just three
or whatever-- two.
He got up on the wall.
And she said, oh, yi yi.
And everybody's looking.
Everybody's looking at
her all of a sudden.
They're looking.
The kid is walking on the wall.
He's 2 and 1/2 years old.
And everybody's looking.
What's the mother going to do?
And she said, it was
the moment of choice.
She said, I knew this
kid was independent that
had come into the world.
So what am I going to do?
I'm either gonna let
him stay on the wall,
or I'm going to take him off.
And she said, screw it.
He stays on the wall.
He walked along the wall.
He didn't fall down.
People looked at her.
She looked at them.
>>REGINA: And they're
probably judging
her-- what a terrible mother.
Terrible mother.
>>RAPPOPORT: Are you kidding?
You bet.
She payed it no mind.
They all walked on.
She walked through the leaves.
The kid walked on the wall.
Everything was all right.
His life turned out to be,
in many respects, fantastic,
just because his mother
said that's who he is.
He's free.
>>REGINA: We have so
little faith in ourselves
as a species.
So little faith that we
have any innate knowledge,
that we can take care of--
>>RAPPOPORT: Or
capacity or anything.
So this is what takes the place.
All of this religious stuff
that we consider to be,
oh, it's so sacred.
This is the substitute
that's rolled in.
OK, boys, they can't handle
the real stuff, so wheel
in the stage-- the
facade-- and everything.
OK, see now, you're
inferior, you're guilty,
you don't know
what you're doing.
You're not free,
you never will be.
You've got so many problems.
And up here is the answer.
How do we want to play
the myth this time?
We're going to do it
this way with the thing.
Bring the lights
over, tell the story,
rope them all in, and
then to the collective,
and we're going to call
it sacred this, that,
and the other thing.
And they're going
to have to buy it.
And anybody that
doesn't buy it, people
are going to point
fingers at 'em.
They're going to say,
you son of Satan,
we knew why we didn't like you--
because you're not Christian,
or you're not Jewish, or you're
not this, or you're not that.
Yeah, bring that on, because
we've got to enforce the myth.
This is the substitute
for what we're
talking about here, which
is the free, creative life
of the individual.
That's what spiritual means.
Because when you
take that far enough,
when you're creating intensely
enough, when you're imagining
your life intensely enough,
when you're spontaneous enough,
all the spiritual questions
you've ever had in your life
are spontaneously answered.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>RAPPOPORT: Right?
That's when the answers come.
It's not, oh, let me
read again the text
of the blah hobby-hobby-knobby.
No.
I mean, those are
somebody's answers.
And that's another thing.
They were somebody's answers
sometime in the past.
And that person was--
guess what-- an artist.
That's what he was.
He wasn't a preacher.
He wasn't preaching 20
centuries into the future.
People will remember
my words 20-- No.
He was creating something.
This was his art.
He built a stone and
he inscribed on it
because that was his art.
And he saw reality that way,
and super reality, and so on.
And that's what he did.
And suddenly, people came
along and said oh, this
is the oo-blah-dee
of the goo-ba-da.
This is part of the myth
we've been looking for.
No.
It has nothing to do with that.
These people are supposed
to build their own stones
and inscribe their own things on
the stone-- or build whatever.
That's the idea.
That's what's been lost.
And instead, we get this
half-cocked business.
And you have people
running around trying
to police other people.
The internet is
just rife with it.
Well, don't read him, because
he's a satanic zappity-zoo.
You know that, don't you?
Yes.
Well, do read him,
because he's a so-and-so.
Yeah.
Classifying, profiling--
talk about profiling.
People are profiling
each other to death.
It all comes down to
their own lack of freedom,
their own lack of creativity,
their own lack of spontaneity--
what Richard Jenkins
was talking about.
And the last thing
that happened was I
saw him heal so many
people that I finally
said, I get it, Richard.
I know what you're doing.
You're just creating what you
want to create in the moment.
You don't have any fear
about the consequences.
He said, that's exactly right.
>>REGINA: And that's what
this message is to us.
And that's what I
assume-- like I said,
I haven't gone through
the CD set yet,
but I assume that's what
The Matrix Revealed is,
and in spades, I think you take
it to another level with that.
>>RAPPOPORT: Another
level-- the nuts and bolts
of how this matrix
is put together.
It's certainly in conjunction
with this book, yes.
>>REGINA: On that note, I
want to thank you so much.
We're out of time,
and this has just
been a fascinating conversation.
>>RAPPOPORT: I loved it myself.
Thank you so much.
I appreciate it.
>>REGINA: Thank you.
I hope this conversation
has been elucidating
and has given you just cause
for questioning everything anew.
As parents, we owe
it to our children
to give them the
power of creativity.
In doing so, they will
create a better world.
Meanwhile, to follow John's
work, you can go to his website
at nomorefakenews.com.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here at Gaiam TV.